# Argust
A simple command line parser which will accept the vector of program arguments and return a sorted structure which can be used to direct execution of the program.

The command line is divided into three parts - 
* Arguments - args which represent either commands or parameters for the program. e.g. `cp test.rs test2.rs` here "test.rs" and "test2.rs" are the arguements.
* Short Parameters - These are single character switches which can modify the behaviour of program e.g. `cp test.rs test2.rs -f` here "-f" is a switch. These can also contain values to pass to program. e.g. `./test -t cpp`, Here cpp can be a value being passed to program.
* Long Paramters - Behaves same as short parameter. Except these are typed out. Short params are generally shortcuts to long_params e.g. `cp test.rs test2.rs --buffer-size=2048` here "--buffer-size=2048" updates the default copy buffer to use the value of 2048 instead.

# How to use

## Basic Usage
The usage is very straight forward.
```rust
    let args: Vec<String> = env::args().skip(1).collect();
    let command_set: ArgContext = commands::parse_args(args, None);

    // Use the values as required
    if let Some(command) = command_set.commands.first() {
        handle_command(command);
    } else {
        basic_commands::help();
    }
```

The `ArgContext` object contains structured information about arguments which were passed. It's defined as-
```rust
pub struct ArgContext {
    pub long_params: HashMap<String, Option<String>>,
    pub short_params: HashMap<String, Option<String>>,
    pub args: Vec<String>,
}
```

Please note that `options` doesn't necessarily require to be a key value pair. i.e. `cp --version` will return a hashmap with key 'version' and value None.

## Configuring parameter style

It's even possible to override the default parse token, i.e. "-" for switch and "--" for options by using the following object and passing it along with `parse_args` method.
```rust
pub struct ParseToken {
    pub option: String,
    pub option_key: String,
    pub switch: String,
}
```
In the command `testApp hello --print=stdin -f`. "--" is `option`, "=" is `option_key` and "-" is `switch`.

The default configuration of parser is - 
```rust
ParseTokens {
    long_token: new_string!("--"),
    long_seperator: new_string!("="),
    short_token: new_string!("-"),
}
```

We need to set the `parameterized_switch_list` field of `ParserConfig` in order to specify which short parameters have values associated with them.

Which means this is how parser will behave - 
`./test -h myval --long=MyLongVal command`
This will generate - `args = ["command"], short=[{"h", "myval"}], long=[{"long","MyLongVal"}]`
The relative order is not important.

This is also valid input as long as `parameterized_switch_list` is configured - `./test -hMyval`

## Accepting space seperated long parameters

In order to modify the parser to accept space seperated long values e.g. `./test --long MyLongValue command` we need to update the config as follows - 
```rust
let mut parse_config = ParserConfig::new();
parse_config.parse_tokens = ParseTokens {
    long_token: String::from("--"),
    long_seperator: String::from(" "),
    short_token: String::from("-"),
};
```

> Please note: If we set `long_seperator` as " ", then it's important to set the `parameterized_option_list` of `ParserConfig` to specify which long parameters will have values. Otherwise these values will be recieved as commands. For any `long_seperator` value other than " ". This field will be ignored since the value will be generated by spliting the parameter.